And fortunately the answer is yes there is a better way of doing this.
I've done a search in Google for Cisco stacking images and you'll find many images such as the following
showing you examples of Cisco switches being stacked.
Now they are different technologies for doing this.
In other words they are different stacking technologies.
One of the oldest is stock wise which was used on the 30 750 switches but again if you do a search in
Google where you have a look at some of the Cisco documentation you'll see a lot of examples of different
stacking technologies that can be used to stack Cisco switches.
So what's the advantage of stacking switches in this way.
In brief when you stack switches they appear to be a single switch to the rest of the network you configure
it as a single switch.
They act as a single switch protocols such as spending tree and CTP.
See that switch as a single switch.
So again Cisco has various technologies that you can use to stack switches or aggregate shesays.
So we have these terms switch stacking and chassis aggregation separate physical switches work together
and cooperate together to act and appear as a single switch rather than multiple discrete switches.
As an analogy it's as if the switches are acting as blades in a chassis based Switch switch.
Stacking is often used at the access layer and chassis aggregation is often used at the distribution
and core layers of a network.
So if you've got multiple access layers switches or multiple distribution or core layer switches rather
than you having to configure each switch individually and configure protocols such as spanning tree
VTB CTP and so forth you configure multiple physical switches as if they one switch they have a mac
address table they run protocols as if they were a single switch and share a MAC address table.
So when you stack switches at the access layer you're literally creating a stack of switches joined
together via special cables.
So a stack of physical switches in a wiring closet as an example can act as a single switch you would
manage the stack with a single management IP address you would telnet or SSA to 1 switch the one that
has the management IP address and not have to telnet or SSA to multiple switches.
There's one configuration file which is included across all the physical switches spanning tree CTP
and VTB are running on one switch not on multiple switches the ports on each physical switch appear
to be part of the same logical switch.
In other words you may have four physical switches each having their own physical ports but logically
you've got one switch with all of those ports there's one MAC address table that references all the
ports on all physical switches there are some additional advantages but the moral of the story is you
have a single virtual switch that you managing rather than four separate discrete switches now to connect
these switches together you use special hardware ports called stacking ports.
Again they are different Cisco technologies.
We've got as an example Cisco flex stack and flex stack plus stacking technology.
You would as an example insert a stacking module in each switch and then connect them with a stacking
cable.
Different stacking technologies work on different switches.
So flex stack and flex stack plus all supported by 29 60 switches such as the 29 60 Yes 29 60 are 29
60 x and 20 960 XOR switch families 37 50 switches which are older switches support stack wise.
And what are these stacking cables do is they form a ring between the switches.
In other words the switches are connected in a series with a lost switch connected back to the first
switch as shown in this topology by using full duplex on each link the stacking modules and cables create
two paths to forward data between the physical switches and the stack switches use these connections
to communicate between the switches in the stack as well as to forward frames and perform other overhead
functions.